= write_xlsx

gem to create a new file in the Excel 2007+ XLSX format, and you can use the same interface as writeexcel gem. write_xlsx is converted from Perl's module Excel::Writer::XLSX-0.70, https://github.com/jmcnamara/excel-writer-xlsx .

== Description

Reference doc : http://cxn03651.github.io/write_xlsx/

The WriteXLSX supports the following features:
* Multiple worksheets
* Strings and numbers
* Unicode text
* Cell formatting
* Formulas (including array formats)
* Images
* Charts
* Autofilters
* Data validation
* Conditional formatting
* Macros
* Tables
* Shapes
* Sparklines
* Hyperlinks
* Rich string formats
* Defined names
* Grouping/Outlines
* Cell comments
* Panes
* Page set-up and printing options

write_xlsx uses the same interface as writeexcel gem.

== Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'write_xlsx'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install write_xlsx

== Synopsis

To write a string, a formatted string, a number and a formula to
the first worksheet in an Excel XML spreadsheet called ruby.xlsx:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'write_xlsx'

  # Create a new Excel workbook
  workbook = WriteXLSX.new('ruby.xlsx')

  # Add a worksheet
  worksheet = workbook.add_worksheet

  # Add and define a format
  format = workbook.add_format # Add a format
  format.set_bold
  format.set_color('red')
  format.set_align('center')

  # Write a formatted and unformatted string, row and column notation.
  col = row = 0
  worksheet.write(row, col, "Hi Excel!", format)
  worksheet.write(1,   col, "Hi Excel!")

  # Write a number and a formula using A1 notation
  worksheet.write('A3', 1.2345)
  worksheet.write('A4', '=SIN(PI()/4)')

  workbook.close

== Recent change
2013-09-07 v0.72.2
   work well with rubyzip 1.0.0

2013-09-06 v0.72.1
   specify rubyzip version : <1.0.0

2013-09-03 v0.72.0
   Fix for charts and images that cross rows and columns that are hidden or formatted but which don't have size changes.
   Fix : Worksheet#write bug when using A1 notation and blank token.

2013-09-02 v0.71.0
   Fixed issue in image handling.
   Added fix to ensure formula calculation on load regardless of Excel version.

2013-07-13 v0.70.0
   Fix for rendering images that are the same size as cell boundaries.
   Fix for inaccurate column width calculation.
   Added Chart line smoothing option.

2013-06-30 v0.69.0
   Added chart font rotation property. Mainly for use with data axes to make the display more compact.
   Fix for issue where shapes on one worksheet corrupted charts on a subsequent worksheet.
   Fix for issue where add_button invalidated cell comments in the same workbook.
   Fix for set_selection with cell range.
   Fix for issue with image scaling.

2013-03-23 v0.65.1
   Bug fix for non-integer image scaling.
   Bug fix in Worksheet#set_first_sheet
   Bug fix in Worksheet#start_page=()

2013-03-23 v0.65.0
   Added options to format series Gap/Overlap for Bar/Column charts.

   Bug fix in Worksheet#write_formula
   (write_formula change original formula string)

   Bug fix in Worksheet#set_column
   (failure when parameter level is out of range)

2013-03-06 v0.64.1
   Bug fix in handling utf-8 string under ruby 1.8.7
   (examples/demo.rb failed under ruby 1.8.7)

   fix in Worksheet#set_h_pagebreaks

2013-03-05 v0.64.0
   Added the option to format individual points in a chart series.
   This allows Pie chart segments to be formatted.


2013-03-05 v0.63.0
  Added Chart data tools such as:
    Error Bars
    Up-Down Bars
    High-Low Lines
    Drop Lines.
  See the chart_data_tools.rb example.

2013-02-24 v0.62.0
  Added option for adding a data table to a Chart X-axis.
  See output from chart_data_table.rb example.

2013-02-23 v0.61.0
  Allow a cell url string to be over written with a number or formula
  using a second write() call to the same cell. The url remains intact.

  Added Worksheet#set_default_row method to set worksheet default values
  for rows.

  Added Chart#size method to set the chart dimensions.

2013-02-19 v0.60.0
 Added Excel form buttons via the worksheet insert_button() method.
 This allows the user to tie the button to an embedded macro imported
 using add_vba_project().
 The portal to the dungeon dimensions is now fully open.

 bug fix in Worksheet#write_url
 bug fix in bin/vba_extract.rb

2013-02-17 v0.59.0
 Added macro support via VBA projects extracted from existing Excel
 xlsm files. User defined functions can be called from worksheets
 and macros can be called by the user but they cannot, currently,
 be linked to form elements such as buttons.

2013-02-10 v0.58.0
 Added chart area and plot area formatting.

2013-02-10 v0.57.0
 Add major and minor axis chart gridline formatting.

2013-02-09 v0.56.0
 Fix for issue where chart creation order had to be the same as the insertion order or charts would be out of sync.
 Fixed issue where gridlines didn't work in Scatter and Stock charts.

2013-02-09 v0.55.0
 Added Sparklines.

2013-02-07 v0.54.0
 Added font manipulation to Charts.
 Added number formats to Chart axes.
 Added Radar Charts.

2012-11-30 v0.51.0
 Impliment Shape, Table as welll as Excel::Write::XLSX-0.51

2012-02-14 v0.0.4
 Fix for x-axis major/minor units in scatter charts.(CPAN_0.46)

2012-01-25 v0.0.3
 alignment format support. see examples/formats.rb

2012-01-20 v0.0.1
 initial release

== Copyright
Original Perl module was written by John McNamara(jmcnamara@cpan.org).

Converted to ruby by Hideo NAKAMURA(cxn03651@msj.biglobe.ne.jp)
Copyright (c) 2012 HIDEO NAKAMURA. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

== Contributing to write_xlsx

* repsitory: http://github.com/cxn03651/write_xlsx
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.
